Parts of Speech

	1.	Nouns - Names of people, places, things, or ideas.
	•	Examples: cat, city, book, happiness
	2.	Pronouns - Words that replace nouns.
	•	Examples: he, she, it, they, we
	3.	Verbs - Words that express actions or states of being.
	•	Examples: run, jump, think, is
	4.	Adjectives - Words that describe or modify nouns.
	•	Examples: happy, large, blue, quick
	5.	Adverbs - Words that describe or modify verbs, adjectives, or other adverbs.
	•	Examples: quickly, very, well, silently
	6.	Prepositions - Words that show relationships between nouns (or pronouns) and other words in a sentence.
	•	Examples: in, on, at, over, under
	7.	Conjunctions - Words that connect words, phrases, or clauses.
	•	Examples: and, but, or, yet, so
	8.	Interjections - Words or phrases that express strong emotion or surprise.
	•	Examples: wow, ouch, hey, oh

Semantic Categories: Semantic categories are groupings of words based on their meaning and the concepts they represent. They provide a way to organize and understand the vast vocabulary of a language. Here's a breakdown of the semantic categories mentioned in the text:

1. Animals: This category includes words related to living creatures, both real and imaginary. Examples include:
Mammals: dog, cat, elephant, lion, whale
Birds: eagle, sparrow, penguin, owl, parrot
Fish: tuna, salmon, shark, goldfish, clownfish
Insects: ant, bee, butterfly, spider, beetle
Reptiles: snake, lizard, turtle, crocodile, alligator
Amphibians: frog, toad, salamander, newt
Mythical creatures: dragon, unicorn, mermaid, centaur, griffin

2. Food: This category includes words related to edible items, including:
Fruits: apple, banana, orange, strawberry, watermelon
Vegetables: carrot, potato, onion, broccoli, spinach
Grains: rice, wheat, corn, oats, barley
Dairy products: milk, cheese, yogurt, butter, ice cream
Meat: chicken, beef, pork, fish, lamb
Drinks: water, coffee, tea, juice, soda
Desserts: cake, pie, cookies, candy, ice cream

3. Places: This category includes words related to locations, both natural and man-made. Examples include:
Natural features: mountain, river, lake, ocean, forest
Landmarks: Eiffel Tower, Statue of Liberty, Great Wall of China, Taj Mahal
Cities: New York, London, Paris, Tokyo, Beijing
Countries: United States, China, India, Brazil, Russia
Buildings: house, apartment, school, hospital, office
Rooms: bedroom, kitchen, living room, bathroom, dining room

4. Emotions: This category includes words related to feelings and mental states. Examples include:
Positive emotions: joy, happiness, love, excitement, gratitude
Negative emotions: sadness, anger, fear, jealousy, disappointment
Neutral emotions: surprise, boredom, confusion, curiosity, indifference

5. Occupations: This category includes words related to jobs and professions. Examples include:
Skilled trades: carpenter, electrician, plumber, mechanic, chef
Professional services: doctor, lawyer, accountant, teacher, engineer
Management: CEO, manager, supervisor, director, executive
Creative fields: artist, writer, musician, actor, designer
Service industry: waiter, waitress, cashier, receptionist, security guard

Functional Categories
Functional categories are groupings of words based on their grammatical function within a sentence. They provide a framework for understanding how words interact and contribute to the overall meaning of a sentence. Here's a breakdown of the functional categories mentioned in the text:

1. Abstract Nouns: These are words that represent intangible concepts, ideas, or qualities. They cannot be directly perceived by the senses and often refer to things that exist in the mind or imagination. Examples include:

Freedom
Love
Justice
Beauty
Happiness
2. Concrete Nouns: These are words that represent tangible objects that can be perceived by the senses. They refer to things that have a physical existence and can be touched, seen, heard, smelled, or tasted. Examples include:

Table
Car
House
Tree
Apple
3. Countable Nouns: These are words that can be counted and have a singular and plural form. They typically refer to individual objects or entities. Examples include:

Book
Cat
Idea
Apple
Person
4. Uncountable Nouns: These are words that cannot be counted and do not have a plural form. They typically refer to substances, materials, or concepts that are not easily divided into individual units. Examples include:

Water
Air
Sugar
Information
Love
Understanding these functional categories can help you to:

Identify the grammatical function of words in a sentence.
Construct grammatically correct sentences.
Improve your vocabulary and understanding of language.
Here are some additional examples of functional categories:

Verbs: These are words that express actions or states of being. Examples include:

Run

Jump

Think

Is

Be

Adjectives: These are words that describe or modify nouns. Examples include:

Happy

Large

Blue

Quick

Beautiful

Adverbs: These are words that describe or modify verbs, adjectives, or other adverbs. Examples include:

Quickly

Very

Well

Silently

Extremely

Prepositions: These are words that show relationships between nouns (or pronouns) and other words in a sentence. Examples include:

In

On

At

Over

Under

Conjunctions: These are words that connect words, phrases, or clauses. Examples include:

And

But

Or

Yet

So

Interjections: These are words or phrases that express strong emotion or surprise. Examples include:

Wow

Ouch

Hey

Oh

Yuck

Morphological Categories
Morphological categories are groupings of words based on their internal structure and how they are formed. This means they focus on the parts that make up a word, rather than its meaning or grammatical function. Here's a breakdown of the main morphological categories:

1. Root Words:

These are the basic building blocks of words, carrying the core meaning.
Examples: "act," "bio," "chron"
By adding prefixes and suffixes to root words, we can create new words with different meanings and functions.
2. Prefixes:

These are added to the beginning of root words to modify their meaning.
Examples: "un-," "re-," "pre-," "mis-"
Adding "un-" to "happy" creates "unhappy," while adding "re-" to "write" creates "rewrite."
3. Suffixes:

These are added to the end of root words to modify their meaning or grammatical function.
Examples: "-ful," "-less," "-ment," "-tion"
Adding "-ful" to "hope" creates "hopeful," while adding "-tion" to "act" creates "action."
Understanding Morphological Categories helps you:

Break down unfamiliar words: By recognizing prefixes and suffixes, you can guess the meaning of a word you haven't encountered before.
Expand your vocabulary: Knowing how words are formed allows you to create new words and understand their meanings.
Improve your spelling: Understanding the structure of words can help you spell them correctly.
Here are some additional examples of morphological categories:

Compound words: These are formed by combining two or more words, like "birdhouse" or "toothbrush."
Acronyms: These are formed from the first letters of several words, like "NASA" or "FBI."
Blends: These are formed by combining parts of two words, like "brunch" (breakfast + lunch) or "smog" (smoke + fog).

Etymological Categories
Etymological categories group words based on their origin and language of derivation. This helps us understand the historical development of words and their relationships to other languages. Here's a breakdown of the main etymological categories mentioned in the text:

1. Greek Roots:

Meaning: Words derived from the Greek language.
Examples: photograph (photo - light, graph - write), telephone (phone - sound), democracy (demos - people, kratos - rule), biology (bios - life, logos - study).
Significance: Greek has significantly influenced scientific, philosophical, and technical vocabulary in English.
2. Latin Roots:

Meaning: Words derived from the Latin language.
Examples: transport (trans - across, port - carry), visual (visus - sight), manual (manus - hand), legal (lex - law).
Significance: Latin was the language of the Roman Empire and the Catholic Church, leaving a lasting impact on legal, medical, and academic terminology.
3. Germanic Roots:

Meaning: Words derived from Germanic languages like Old English, German, and Dutch.
Examples: house, friend, sky, water, strong, understand.
Significance: These form the core vocabulary of English, representing everyday words and concepts.
4. Other Etymological Categories:

French: words like "rendezvous," "cuisine," "ballet."
Italian: words like "opera," "pizza," "mafia."
Spanish: words like "canyon," "tornado," "siesta."
Arabic: words like "algebra," "algorithm," "coffee."
Benefits of Understanding Etymological Categories:

Vocabulary Expansion: Knowing word origins helps you guess the meaning of unfamiliar words and build a richer vocabulary.
Improved Comprehension: Understanding the historical context of words enhances your reading comprehension and appreciation of literature.
Etymology as a Hobby: Exploring word origins can be a fascinating and rewarding hobby, revealing the interconnectedness of languages and cultures.

Synonyms and Antonyms of words

	1.	Synonyms - Words with similar meanings.
	•	Examples: big/large, happy/joyful, fast/quick
	2.	Antonyms - Words with opposite meanings.
	•	Examples: hot/cold, up/down, love/hate

By categorizing words in these ways, we can better understand their functions, meanings, and relationships within the language.

Common Root Words and Their Meanings
    Common root words are the basic building blocks of many English words. They are derived mainly from Latin and Greek and carry a fundamental meaning. Often, they cannot stand alone as complete words but serve as the core from which other words are formed by adding prefixes and suffixes.

Here's a breakdown:

Root Word: The core element of a word, carrying its essential meaning. Examples: "aqua" (water), "bio" (life), "dict" (say).
Prefix: A word part added to the beginning of a root word to modify its meaning. Examples: "re" (again), "un" (not), "pre" (before).
Suffix: A word part added to the end of a root word to modify its meaning or grammatical function. Examples: "-er" (one who), "-ful" (full of), "-ly" (in the manner of).
Understanding common root words and their meanings is beneficial for:

Vocabulary Expansion: Recognizing root words helps you decipher unfamiliar words and learn their meanings. For instance, if you know "bio" means life, you can easily understand "biography" (a written account of someone's life) or "biology" (the study of living organisms).
Spelling: Many spelling patterns follow root word rules. Understanding these patterns can improve your spelling accuracy.
Reading Comprehension: By recognizing root words, you can better understand the meanings of sentences and paragraphs, leading to improved comprehension.
Examples:

Root word: "port" (carry)
Words formed: transport, import, export
Root word: "dict" (say)
Words formed: dictate, predict, contradict

	1.	Act - to do
	•	Examples: action, actor, react, transaction
	2.	Aud - to hear
	•	Examples: audience, auditory, audition, inaudible
	3.	Bio - life
	•	Examples: biology, biography, biosphere, antibiotic
	4.	Chron - time
	•	Examples: chronological, chronic, synchronize, chronicle
	5.	Dict - to say
	•	Examples: predict, dictate, dictionary, contradict
	6.	Duc/Duct - to lead
	•	Examples: conduct, reduce, produce, induction
	7.	Gen - birth, race, kind
	•	Examples: genetics, generate, generation, genocide
	8.	Geo - earth
	•	Examples: geography, geology, geothermal, geocentric
	9.	Graph - to write
	•	Examples: autograph, graphology, graphite, photograph
	10.	Ject - to throw
	•	Examples: eject, inject, project, trajectory
	11.	Log/Logue - word, study
	•	Examples: dialogue, monologue, logic, analogy
	12.	Manu - hand
	•	Examples: manual, manuscript, manufacture, manicure
	13.	Morph - shape, form
	•	Examples: morphology, metamorphosis, amorphous, polymorph
	14.	Path - feeling, disease
	•	Examples: empathy, pathology, apathy, psychopath
	15.	Phon - sound
	•	Examples: telephone, phonics, symphony, phonograph
	16.	Port - to carry
	•	Examples: transport, import, portable, support
	17.	Scrib/Script - to write
	•	Examples: describe, manuscript, prescription, inscription
	18.	Spec - to see
	•	Examples: inspect, spectacle, perspective, spectator
	19.	Struct - to build
	•	Examples: construct, destruction, infrastructure, restructure
	20.	Terr - earth
	•	Examples: territory, terrestrial, terrace, subterranean
	21.	Therm - heat
	•	Examples: thermometer, thermostat, thermos, geothermal
	22.	Ven/Vent - to come
	•	Examples: adventure, convention, intervene, prevent
	23.	Vid/Vis - to see
	•	Examples: video, vision, evidence, invisible
	24.	Voc/Vok - voice, call
	•	Examples: vocal, invocation, revoke, advocate

These root words are derived from Latin and Greek and form the basis for many English words. Understanding these roots can help with deciphering the meanings of unfamiliar words and improving vocabulary.


OBJECT Definition ->
targetObject {
    name: "string",
    forceValue: "number",
    assObjects {
        assObject{ //n number of assObjects can be added but need to define min force value for association.
            type: "string | ?",
            keyMatching: "exact | similar",
            value: "string",
            forceValue: "number"
        }
    }
    
}